
=head1 NAME

Mail::Toaster::Conf - How to configure your Mail::Toaster

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The toaster has two main configuration files, toaster.conf and toaster-watcher.conf. On most platforms, both of these files live in /usr/local/etc. Make changes to these files to customize your Mail::Toaster build.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration Files

The toaster has two main configuration files, toaster.conf and toaster-watcher.conf. On FreeBSD, both of these files live in /usr/local/etc. 

The reason for having two config files is security. The toaster-watcher.conf file is available only to programs with root privileges (toaster-watcher.pl, toaster_setup.pl). This is because passwords and other security sensitive information is stored in that file.

  toaster-watcher.conf controls options relating to: 
   - where files are kept on your particular server 
   - settings related to how the toaster is built
   - what programs and options are installed
   - where programs and run files are installed
   - run time parameters used to configure daemons
   - how the toaster's logs should be processed.

  toaster.conf is for everything else (mailadmin, maillogs)

=head1 AUTHOR

 David Chaplin-Loebell <david@klatha.com>
 Matt Simerson <matt@tnpi.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

 perldoc toaster-watcher.conf, perldoc toaster.conf


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2004-2008, The Network People, Inc.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of the The Network People, Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

=cut


